:memo: Adding Steps for 09-recurssion tutorial (#763)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/zkapps/tutorials/09-recursion.mdx

Proofs generated using a ZkProgram can be passed into zkApp smart contracts for them to verify recursively. They can even be passed recursively into their own functions for off-chain recursive composition.

The full source code for the following ZkProgram tutorial is provided in the [main.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/09-recursion/src/main.ts) directory on GitHub. While you're there, give the `/docs2` repository a star so that other zk developers can learn to build a zkApp!

> :::info

Reviewer: @LuffySama-Dev we are removing line numbers for future, so we can omit this part

To prevent copying line numbers and command prompts as shown in the examples, use the copy code to clipboard button that appears at the top right of the snippet box when you hover over it.

:::

## Prerequisites

Ensure your environment meets the [Prerequisites](/zkapps/tutorials#prerequisites) for zkApp Developer Tutorials.

In particular, make sure you have the zkApp CLI installed:

```sh
$ npm install -g zkapp-cli
```

## Create a new project

Now that you have the tooling installed, you can start building your application.

1. Create or change to a directory where you have write privileges.
1. Now, create a project using the `zk project` command:

```sh
$ zk project 09-recursion
```

> The `zk project` command has the ability to scaffold the UI for your project. For this tutorial, select `none`:
> 
> ```
> ? Create an accompanying UI project too? …
>   next
>   svelte
>   nuxt
>   empty
> ❯ none
> ```
> 
> The expected output is:
> 
> ```sh
> ✔ Create an accompanying UI project too? · none
> ✔ UI: Set up project
> ✔ Initialize Git repo
> ✔ Set up project
> ✔ NPM install
> ✔ NPM build contract
> ✔ Set project name
> ✔ Git init commit
> 
> Success!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `zk project` command has the ability to scaffold the UI for your project. For this tutorial, select `none`.
```

Reviewer: since this is tutorial 9, we can leave out the very detailed steps since devs will have already mastered these steps in earlier tutorials

> Next steps:
>   cd 09-recursion
>   git remote add origin <your-repo-url>
>   git push -u origin main
> ```
> 
> The `zk project` command creates the `09-recursion` directory that contains the scaffolding for your project, including tools such as the Prettier code formatting tool, the ESLint static code analysis tool, and the Jest JavaScript testing framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you learned in earlier tutorials, the `zk project` command creates the `09-recursion` directory that contains the scaffolding for your project.
```

> 1. Change into the `09-recursion` directory and list the contents:
> 
> ```sh
> $ cd 09-recursion
> $ ls
> ```
> 
> The output shows these results:
> 
> ```sh
> LICENSE
> README.md
> babel.config.cjs
> build
> config.json
> jest-resolver.cjs
> jest.config.js
> keys
> node_modules
> package-lock.json
> package.json
> src
> tsconfig.json
> ```
> 
> For this tutorial, you run commands from the root of the `09-recursion` directory as you work in the `src` directory on files that contain the TypeScript code for the smart contract. Each time you make updates, then build or deploy, the TypeScript code is compiled into JavaScript in the `build` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Change into the `09-recursion` directory. Like all projects, you run commands from the root of the `09-recursion` directory as you work in the `src` directory on files that contain the TypeScript code for the smart contract. Each time you make updates, then build or deploy, the TypeScript code is compiled into JavaScript in the `build` directory.
```

### Prepare the project

> Start by deleting the default files that come with the new project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like earlier tutorials, you can start by deleting the default files that come with the new project.
```

1. To delete the old files:

```sh
$ rm src/Add.ts
$ rm src/Add.test.ts
$ rm src/interact.ts
```

1. Now, create the new files for your project:

```sh

> $ zk file src/Add

Reviewer: did you want to use Square.ts? https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/09-recursion/src/Square.ts

Author: Hi @barriebyron ,

 I went through all the files and I am not sure why `Square.ts` is used here. Code inside this file does not aligns to what  tutorial is actually for. 
According to me we can remove it, if possible can we ask someone from team to review it ? 

Same is for `zkProgram_wrapper.ts`.

Can you please help to get it reviewed so I can remove it in coming commits ?

Author: About `Add.ts` I will replace it with the original one from previous tutorial i.e `main.ts`.

> 1. To delete the old files:
> 
> ```sh
> $ rm src/Add.ts
> $ rm src/Add.test.ts
> $ rm src/interact.ts
> ```
> 
> 1. Now, create the new files for your project:
> 
> ```sh
> $ zk file src/Add
> $ touch src/main.ts
> ```
> 
> - The `zk file` command created the `src/Add.ts` and `src/Add.test.ts` test files.
> - However, this tutorial does not include writing tests, so you just use the `main.ts` file as a script to interact with the smart contract and observe how it works.
> 
> In later tutorials, you learn how to interact with a smart contract from the browser, like a typical end user.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we'll omit these steps since devs will already have experience

3. Now, open `src/index.ts` in a text editor and change it to look like:

```ts src/index.ts

> 1 import { Add } from './Add.js';

Author: No, actually `Square.ts` was never used in tutorial. The fils which was used is `main.ts`. The code which we are explaining in this tutorial is about recursion and it matches the code from `main.ts` and not the `Square.ts`.

> 3. Now, open `src/index.ts` in a text editor and change it to look like:
> 
> ```ts src/index.ts
> 1 import { Add } from './Add.js';
> 2
> 3 export { Add };
> ```
> 
> The `src/index.ts` file contains all of the exports you want to make available for consumption from outside your smart contract project, such as from a UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open `src/index.ts` in a text editor and import the Add smart contract, like:

```ts src/index.ts
import { Add } from './Add.js';

export { Add };
```

The `src/index.ts` file contains all of the exports you want to make available for consumption from outside your smart contract project.
```

Reviewer: be sure the contract example file and all references align

## Write the ZkProgram

Now, the fun part! Write your smart contract in the `src/Add.ts` file.

> Line numbers are provided for convenience. A final version of the smart contract is provided in the [Add.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Add.ts) example file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A final version of the smart contract is provided in the [Add.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Add.ts) example file.
```

Reviewer: you'll see my earlier questions, all related. Thank you for this work!

> Line numbers are provided for convenience. A final version of the smart contract is provided in the [Add.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Add.ts) example file.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This part of the tutorial walks you through the Add ZkProgram code already completed in the `src/Add.ts` example file.
> 
> ### Copy the example
> 
> This tutorial describes each part of the completed code in the [Add.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Add.ts) example file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Copy the example

Use the Add code already completed in the [Add.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Add.ts) example file.
```

Reviewer: if we need the Add.ts file, put an updated file into the https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/tree/main/examples/zkapps/09-recursion/src directory

1. First, open the [Add.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Add.ts) example file.

1. Copy the entire contents of the file into your ZkProgram in the `src/Add.ts` file.

Now you are ready to review the imports in the ZkProgram.

### Imports

The `import` statement brings in other packages and dependencies to use in your ZkProgram.

:::info

All functions used inside a ZkProgram must operate on o1js compatible data types: `Field` types and other types built on top of `Field` types.

:::info

```ts src/Add.ts

> 1 import { Field, SelfProof, ZkProgram } from 'o1js';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { Field, SelfProof, ZkProgram } from 'o1js';
```

```

These items are:

> - `Field`: The native number type in o1js. You can think of Field elements as unsigned integers. Field elements are the most basic type in o1js. All other o1js-compatible types are built on top of Field elements.

Reviewer: do you want to describe SelfProof?

- `ZkProgram`: The o1js general purpose API for creating zero knowledge proofs. A ZkProgram is similar to zkApp smart contracts but isn't tied to an on-chain account.

### ZkProgram

To create a ZkProgram, start with the `init()` method.

- For each method, declare the inputs it will receive.
- The first argument of a ZkProgram method is always the state of the ZkProgram, named `publicInput` since it is public.

```typescript
3 export const Add = ZkProgram({
4  name: 'add-example',
5  publicInput: Field,
6
7  methods: {
8    init: {
9      privateInputs: [],
10
11      method(state: Field) {
12        state.assertEquals(Field(0));
13      },
14    },
15  },
16 });
17
```

Add another method that takes an existing proof, adds a new number to it, and produces a new proof:

```typescript

> 15

Reviewer: remove line numbers here too

16    addNumber: {
17      privateInputs: [SelfProof, Field],
18
19      method(
20        newState: Field,
21        earlierProof: SelfProof<Field, void>,
22        numberToAdd: Field
23      ) {
24        earlierProof.verify();
25        newState.assertEquals(earlierProof.publicInput.add(numberToAdd));
26      },
27    },
28  },
29 });
```

Use recursion to combine two proofs:

```typescript

> 28

Reviewer: remove line numbers here too

29    add: {
30      privateInputs: [SelfProof, SelfProof],
31
32      method(
33        newState: Field,
34        earlierProof1: SelfProof<Field, void>,
35        earlierProof2: SelfProof<Field, void>
36      ) {
37        earlierProof1.verify();
38        earlierProof2.verify();
39        newState.assertEquals(
40          earlierProof1.publicInput.add(earlierProof2.publicInput)
41        );
42      },
43    },
44  },
45 });
```

## Interact with a smart contract

> Next, write a script that interacts with your smart contract. As before, the complete [main.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/main.ts) example file is provided. Follow these steps to build the `main.ts` file so you can interact with the smart contract.

Reviewer: since Tutorial 4 was the "model" for these updates, it talks about interacting with the smart contract. We can omit the UI-based steps here

### Imports

For this tutorial, the `import` statement brings in items from `o1js` that you use to interact with your smart contract. 

1. Copy the following lines from [main.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/main.ts) example file into the `src/main.ts` file:

```ts src/main.ts
1 import { Add } from './Add.js';
2 import { Field, verify } from 'o1js';
```

> ### Call Methods
> 
> Now we will add methods to call ZkProgram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Call Methods

Add methods to call ZkProgram:
```

```typescript

> 3

Reviewer: be sure the example code in https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/09-recursion/src/main.ts is current 
and match here (omit line numbers please)

4 async function main() {
5   console.log('compiling...');
6 
7   const { verificationKey } = await Add.compile();
8 
9   console.log('making proof 0')
10  
11   const proof0 = await Add.init(Field(0));
12  
13   console.log('making proof 1')
14  
15   const proof1 = await Add.addNumber(Field(4), proof0, Field(4));
16  
17   console.log('making proof 2')
18 
19   const proof2 = await Add.add(Field(4), proof1, proof0);
20 
21   console.log('verifying proof 2');
22   console.log('proof 2 data', proof2.publicInput.toString());
23  
24   const ok = await verify(proof2.toJSON(), verificationKey);
25   console.log('ok', ok);
26 }
27 
28 main();
```

Verification of the proof can occur off-chain using the `verify()` method. This is useful for applications where you want to prove something to an off-chain entity.

### Build and run the smart contract

> Now that the Square smart contract is complete, these commands run your project as a local blockchain.

Reviewer: what is the contract we want to build? Square? (be sure all the file names and example files match up throughout)

Author: Oh Sorry, I missed this one.
Will proof read it once again.

According to existing tutorial and the examples, we are building three files mainly:
- Add.ts
- Rollup.ts
- Vote.ts

To compile the TypeScript code into JavaScript:

> 

Reviewer: I haven't tested this yet... looks like you ran the code locally, thank you!

would you be up for fixing the [README.md](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/09-recursion/README.md) file to be accurate?

Author: Yes Sure,

I will do it.
